[ominous music]
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[glasses clinking]
- [Gene Cernan] I put the binocu
and I can see it spinning around
and I wouldn't bet my
life on it being the S4B.
but it sure has gotta
be something like it.
- [Reporter] That was Gene
Cernan reporting that sighting.
Orbit
- We were that first crew
that was going to get a chance
to fly this vehicle and test thi
that was going to take
human beings to the Moon.
[dramatic music]
- [Narrator] Mankind makes one g
and lands the first man on the M
a historic achievement for the h
But that giant leap took
many lunges. trips and falls
in order for our astronauts to
actually achieve this moment.
And along the way. many space
researchers have speculated
that our astronauts may have see
and anomalous structures
on the surface of the Moon.
- You know. we have a.
it's a very interesting
little document from 1950.
there was a Canadian government
named Wilbert Smith.
and he was very interested
in these flying saucers.
Wilbert Smith was a real smart g
He was an engineer. he was a sci
and he had a kind of a
mid-upper level position
in the Canadian bureaucracy
and he was able to go
down to Washington DC
in September. 1950 to the
Canadian Embassy there.
And while he was hanging
around DC he goes and talks
to some American scientists
and one in particular.
And this was a scientist who
was very well plugged in.
and this man. man whose
name was Robert Sarbacher.
we learned many years later.
It was very. very powerful.
Sarbacher says. yes.
flying sauces do exist.
I can confirm that for you.
Their modus operandi is unknown.
but the United States government
this the most classified subject
of all two levels higher
than the hydrogen bomb.
which in 1950 was about
as big as you could get.
but flying saucers were higher t
So Smith types up this
memo for his supervisors
in the Canadian government.
and. uh. that's that.
But actually. that wasn't that.
because years after he died.
his private papers were analyzed
and the exact name of that
scientist was written there.
And that scientist. Robert
Sarbacher was still alive
and researchers found him.
Sarbacher confirmed the
whole thing.
He said. "Yeah. that actually
did happen."
So anyway. my point simply is.
you've got very clear knowledge
among the highest
circles in Washington back
in 1950. for example.
And in the military
back in 1950 that. yes.
absolutely UFOs were the most
sensitive subject out there.
Now. ask yourself.
why would that be.
You know. why would that be the
most sensitive subject
if it was all nonsense and
hallucinations
and hoaxes and things like this?
You know?
Well. obviously it's a lot
more than that.
And when you go through
the declassified literature
such that we have. there's
still a lot we don't have.
but we have enough to
show very. very clearly
you had countless violations
of sensitive aerospace
by objects that did not
look normal. that were not.
that were doing things that
were not supposed to be possible
over places that you were
never supposed to go.
Alright. whether that means
over Los Alamos. you know.
where the scientists
developed the atomic bomb
or the Hanford Nuclear Plant
in the state of Washington.
which was a major plutonium
processing facility.
a lot of toxic waste
there to this day.
Or over the Oak Ridge. uh.
nuclear facility in Tennessee
where again. a great
deal of science
on the atomic bomb
was developed.
All of these very
sensitive places.
you don't just go
hang out over them.
but UFOs were hanging
out over them
and. you know. jets would
be sent to intercept.
In one case. we know of
anti-aircraft battalions
were alerted.
You know. [laughs]
Can you imagine if the public
knew about this at the time?
They didn't. they didn't
find out
until years and years later
after these documents were
declassified.
By then. they were just sunk
into the black hole of
the public memory
and. you know. no one really
seemed to care.
But back in 1950. if these
incidents had become known.
I think people would've cared
quite a bit.
Uh. they were very important.
My point here simply is this.
the subject of UFOs has
always been considered
to be of the highest level
of security classification
that we know of.
And so now. if you've got NASA
engaged in any capacity with
the United States military
on any type of classified
mission that it engages in.
there is no way ever
that they're just gonna
tell the world.
oh look. there are all
these UFOs. people.
How cool is that?
Now. that will never happen.
That will never happen
until the laws change
and those laws haven't changed.
This subject still
remains highly classified
even well into the 21st century.
It is...
You know. we can talk a little
bit more about it now
than say a few years ago.
That's interesting and
that's true.
but there's... you know.
there's still a red line
and thou shall not go over
that red line.
- It was one of these
clear. clear days
and that's why I was up.
because you could
see to infiniti.
and it was an ideal day
for aerial photography.
And it appeared silver
with a shadow underneath
There's always metallic.
And it was moving at
a rate of speed.
I would say 150 miles
an hour plus or minus.
And appeared to be maybe
20 meters across.
- [Speaker] We decided to
analyze the Catalina film.
- And there seems to
be some holes
or some kind of transparency
underneath here.
One takes a good look at this
and considering that
the speed of the object
as reported by Lee
Hansen. the photographer.
is that this is moving at
about 120 miles an hour.
This begins to look like a
small commercial airplane.
and one can draw the comparison
that you have the
bright wing on the top.
the windows and the flyer.
the rudder structure.
and that's it.
The Catalina film. I'm afraid.
falls into the category of an
identified flying airplane.
[ominous music]
[dramatic music]
- [Narrator] The Lunar Orbiter
missions
were initiated in early 1964
and consisted of five
identical unmanned spacecraft
to investigate the surface
of the Moon.
The main purpose of the
program was to locate
smooth level areas on the
Moon's near side
to confirm the areas as suitable
for manned landing sites
for the Apollo program.
Other program objectives
were to collect data
on the Moon's gravitational
field
to provide precision
trajectory information
and study radiation
and micrometeoroid flux
in the vicinity of the Moon.
The Orbiter took pictures
of the Moon's surface.
more than 90% of the
pictures taken
were transmitted successfully.
including the historic
Earth rise.
taken from the Moon on
August 23rd. 1966.
The Orbiter also obtained
environmental data
during all periods of visibility
Some photographs were
not transmitted.
However. when the
transmitting equipment failed
during the readout operation.
only a small number of
pictures were lost
and other data collection
was not affected.
Lunar Orbiter 2 made
significant additions
to the techniques and data
required to land on the Moon.
Mission 3 differed from
the previous two missions
in that it was a
site-confirmation mission
rather than a
site-selection mission.
Despite some operational
problems during the mission.
Orbiter 4 was highly successful
in fulfilling its purpose.
The photographs obtained.
provided information and detail
at least 10 times better than
Earth-based observations.
The photography captured
during Mission 5
was an incredible improvement
in resolution from Mission 4.
This allowed NASA to
gain better insight
into sites of interest on
the near side of the Moon.
The far side photography
provided coverage
of essentially all areas not cov
during the preceding
four missions.
In the early two thousands.
a former Air Force technician
specializing in
photographic printer repair.
made a shocking statement to
the public about his experience
while working for the
NSA during the 1960s.
- I said. who's. what do you
mean who's.
He said. yes. there's.
we've discovered
a base on the backside
of the Moon.
And at that point I
became frightened.
- [Narrator] Another now famous
unidentified lunar object
was spotted by the Lunar
Orbiter 3 in February of 1967.
a total of 149 medium resolution
and 477 high resolution frames
were returned from this mission.
And in one composite image.
an object known as The Shard
can be seen.
This object was supposedly
located between the Bruce Crater
and the Sinus midi mare
plain area of the Moon.
NASA has never acknowledged
this phenomenon.
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]
- And then he pulled out
one of these mosaics
and showed this base which
had geometric shapes.
There were towers. there
were spherical buildings.
There were very tall towers
and things
that looked somewhat
like radar dishes.
but they were large structures.
[dramatic music continues]
So it was rare that someone
would do something like this.
but this fellow and I were
the same rank.
I think he was very distressed.
He had the same power
and demeanor
as the scientists outside
the room.
They were just as concerned
as he was
and he needed to discuss
it with somebody.
So. that was the end of
it right there.
I didn't take it any further
than that.
I just filed it away.
But the interesting thing.
every day that I went home.
I would think to myself.
I can't wait to hear
about this on the news.
So I'd turn on the TV
and I'd look at the news
to see if they're gonna
announce we've discovered a base
on the back side of the
Moon being really naive.
And of course. here it
is 30 some years later.
and we still haven't
heard about it.
- Researcher and filmmaker.
James Fox.
started his journey into UFOs
through Apollo astronaut
testimony.
- Basically. out of this
whole UFO phenomenon.
when did you become
interested in the idea
that NASA astronauts
have seen UFOs in space
and that possibly had been
covered up?
- I never did. until I
wasn't like
actively looking for UFOs
in space. NASA.
I watched an interview
in the early nineties
with Apollo 14 astronaut
Edgar Mitchell.
sixth man to walk the Moon.
And he talked about UFOs
very openly. and I thought.
here's a man who's got
everything to lose
and nothing to gain by
what he's doing.
- [Reporter] It's the sort of
disclosure UFO investigators
are demanding from the
US government.
How would people react?
- That would be kind of
good it's about time.
- [Reporter] Former
astronaut. Edgar Mitchell.
is the sixth man to walk
on the Moon
and a firm believer that aliens
have visited our planet
repeatedly.
So I had to ask.
why are they coming in
these little glancing visits
and we haven't had a
more meaningful dialogue
or contact or attempt to
communicate with these people?
- Well. I think we have.
- [Reporter] Really?
- I think we have. but it
is not common knowledge.
- [Reporter] Mitchell told
me after
he returned from the Moon.
he was briefed at the Pentagon
by a high ranking officer.
whose name he would not reveal.
who said the US government
does have evidence
of alien spacecraft and
is keeping it a secret.
- Well. I think the real reason
it is still a secret is power
and control.
controlling whatever
technology exists.
- [Reporter] All of this
is fascinating stuff.
if it is true.
- I mean. I've talked
to government insiders
and intelligence folks
and they kinda laugh at it.
but obviously. they have
secret craft
that we don't know about.
that's obvious.
But whether they have
successfully reversed engineered
what they've recovered
in Roswell.
that's something that I have
not seen the evidence for.
I'm not saying definitively
that it didn't happen.
that they weren't successfully
reverse engineered.
I have seen zero evidence of it.
That's just me and
people can disagree
all they want and that's fine.
[eerie music]
[eerie music continues]
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]
- [Narrator] The Apollo missions
began in an irregular way
compared to the previous
man capsule missions.
This turned out disastrous
for the first Apollo 1
test pilots.
Apollo 2 and 3. which
were unmanned.
were called AS-202 and
AS-203 respectively.
in which the newly designed
Apollo capsule
was married to the Saturn
1B rocket vehicle system.
July 5th. 1966.
an unmanned flight
of the Saturn 1B rocket.
it carried no command
and service module
as its purpose was to
verify the design
of the S4B rocket stage
restart capability.
This would later be used
in the Apollo program
to boost astronauts from
Earth orbit
on a trajectory to the Moon.
It achieved its goals.
but the stage was inadvertently
destroyed after four orbits.
Launched unmanned on
August 25th. 1966
by a Saturn 1B vector
and suborbital flight.
this flight was used to
perform tests
on the command and
service module.
which was later
recovered destined
to perform a man landing
on the Moon.
On January 27th. 1967
at Launchpad 34
at the Kennedy Space Center.
astronauts Grissom. White
and Chaffee
were sealed inside of their
spacecraft for a plugs out test.
The spacecraft was
pressurized with pure oxygen.
Numerous communication problems
were encountered during the test
[radio static crackling]
- [Narrator] Suddenly
a spark occurred
in the wiring of the
spacecraft
somewhere below Grissom's feet.
In the pure oxygen atmosphere.
the fire
flashed through the spacecraft
consuming anything flammable.
The crews struggled to open the
hatch of the command module.
It was a complex task that
required too much time.
Before they could open
the hatch.
the fumes given off from
the fire asphyxiated them.
[ominous music]
[radio static crackling]
- [Gus Grissom] Fire!
- One thing to take note of
about the Apollo 1 mission
is that many of the
astronauts were very nervous
about this Apollo spacecraft
and its rapid buildup.
Concurrently with the Gemini
mission still being finished.
Many of the astronauts
were being
swapped over to the
Apollo mission
and this rapid buildup
looked like
it was going to cause
malfunctions
and errors to that spacecraft.
Walter Schirra. he actually
commented to Gus Grissom.
one of the pilots of
the early Gemini project
that had been swapped
over to Apollo 1.
that something didn't ring right
about the Apollo 1 spacecraft
and that if he saw
any signs of trouble
that he should get out quickly.
- [Narrator] After this
disastrous fire
during the Apollo 1 test.
NASA decided to run many
successive test flights
that were unmanned.
Mike Bara famously
co-authored the book
"Dark Mission: The Secret
History of NASA"
in which he speculates
with photo evidence
that NASA has been covering
up anomalies on the Moon.
- The other possibility is that
we have had far more
advanced technology
than we will acknowledge
for the last 60. 70 years.
And it's some of our
guys having a little fun
with the spam in a can.
Dudes that are stuck
in the Apollo program.
That's what Gus Grissom
once referred to Apollo as
is we're spam in a can.
he was overheard to say.
and they've been to the
Moon already.
they've been to Mars already.
They got technology we
can't even dream of here
and they're sticking us up here
in these rickety old rockets
and risking our lives.
And of course. he ended
up losing his life
and a lot of people have a
lot of suspicions about that.
that he was such a vocal
advocate for the fact
that they had better
technology than they were using
to go to the Moon
and it really made him angry
and could have made
him a target.
- [Narrator] November
9th. 1967 was the day
in which the Saturn 5 launch
vehicle was first tested.
This was the rocket that would
send astronauts to the Moon.
[ominous music]
On April 4th. 1968. this
unmanned flight
tested the Saturn 5's ability
to perform
a trans lunar injection
using 80% of the payload.
which the later manned
mission would perform again.
Unfortunately. the phenomenon
known as the Pogo Effect
damaged the two Rocketdyne
engines on the second stage
when the internal fuel
lines ruptured.
The Rocketdyne J2 engine
on the S4B third stage
also failed to restart
trans lunar injection.
So the correct trans lunar
velocity could not be achieved.
Nevertheless. NASA considered
the Saturn 5
ready to receive its first crew.
October 11th. 1968. Apollo 7
was the first manned space
flight of the Apollo program.
Donn Eisele.
Commander Walter M. Schirra
and Walter Cunningham's crew
spend almost 11 days in space
testing a command module
spacecraft
designed to orbit the Earth
and safely bring humans to
the Moon and back again.
The mission objective was to
demonstrate crew performance
with the command service module.
- [Reporter] Apollo 7
was also a go
for an exhaustive series
of tests
of its worthiness in space.
One of the first things
which had to be learned
was whether the astronauts
could control the spacecraft
combined with the
S4B Saturn stage.
A very similar thing would
have to be done
during the early phases
of a lunar mission.
The answer was not
long in coming.
- [Astronaut] S4B test complete.
- [Astronaut] Beautiful.
- [Astronaut] It was outstanding
- [Astronaut] Real. fine and ups
- [Reporter] Next.
the spacecraft
and S4B stage were separated.
The question now was
whether the astronauts
could turn their
spacecraft around
and control it to the
degree required
for future physical linkups
with equipment in space.
For this too would have to
be done in the lunar flight.
And again. the answer was yes.
- [Astronaut] A little
flight is like Germany.
- [Reporter] Something
that will not be seen
in the lunar flight or
in any other
forthcoming Apollo mission
were the panels at the
top of the S4B stage.
They will simply be
jettisoned in the future.
But they drew comment
in Apollo 7.
- [Astronaut] And the slot panel
at the top left and bottom
opened.
And I would about a
45 degree angle
and the slot panel on the right.
just opened though maybe 30
degrees at the very best.
- [Control] All right. Roger.
looks like you're looking at
a four jawed angry alligator.
- [Narrator] During this
mission. multiple tests
for the Saturn rocket system
and the astronaut crew
interactions were successful.
This was the first mission
to use the Apollo flight suit
and to successfully complete
a live video transmission
from space.
- [Reporter] Always before
we've had
to be content with merely
listening
to our astronauts during
their flights.
In Apollo 7. through the
medium of television.
we could actually see them
in space for the first time
and become better acquainted
with weightless life aboard
a spacecraft.
- [Astronaut] You're picking up.
I can read now just a minute.
It says...
[ominous music]
[ominous music continues]
[dramatic music]
- [Narrator]
December 21st. 1968.
Apollo 8 was the second crude
mission of the Apollo program
and the first mission to bring
humans to the Moon's orbit.
They were the first humans
to leave low Earth orbit.
The first to see the
entire Earth.
the first to see the
dark side of the Moon
and the first to see the sunrise
of the Earth from the Moon.
- [Controller] T Minus
15. 14. 13. 12. 11. 10. 9.
So we have ignition
sequence five.
the engines are on
4. 3. 2. 1. 0.
[dramatic music]
I have commit. we have liftoff.
Lift off at 7:51 am
Eastern Standard Time.
- [Narrator] Apollo 8 took
three days to reach the Moon.
It orbited 10 times
over 20 hours.
[upbeat music]
- [Astronaut] This
transmission is coming to you
approximately halfway between
the Moon and the Earth.
We've been 31 hours. about
20 minutes into the flight.
We have about less than 40
hours left to go to the Moon.
- [Narrator] So Apollo
8 glided on silently
farther from Earth than
man had ever before been.
A microscopic dot of
life in the cosmic void.
- [Astronaut] Face of
the waters.
And God said.
let there be light.
- [Narrator] The crew also made
a televised Christmas Eve
broadcast
in which they read
the first 10 verses
of the book of Genesis.
This broadcast was the most
watched in history at the time.
- [Astronaut] So the
evening and the morning
was the first day and God said.
[indistinct]
- [Narrator] The choice
to spend Christmas Eve
in lunar orbit was made
because that was the time
of optimal lighting
conditions for surveying
the Apollo landing site 1.
During the mission. astronauts
took photos of the Earth
from the Moon.
including the second
Earth rise picture.
which was higher quality
than the Earth rise
taken previously by
the Lunar Orbiter.
- [Controller] Apollo 8.
Houston.
what does the old Moon look
like from 60 miles over?
- [Astronaut] Okay. Houston.
the Moon is essentially gray.
No color. looks like plaster of
Or sort of a grayish beach sand.
because he planted
a bit of detail.
The craters are all
round and off.
There's quite a few of them.
some are newer.
Many of 'em look like.
especially the round ones.
look like hit by meteorites
or projectiles of some sort.
- [Controller] A level
we have a picture.
We see the Earth right in the
center of the screen over.
- [Narrator] During
these TV transmissions.
the astronauts also
provided a verbal commentary
to accompany the footage
being broadcast.
Contrary to popular
belief. these broadcasts
were not extemporaneous or
improvised performances.
Rather. both the footage
and dialogue
were entirely scripted
out prior to the flight.
The Apollo cover story
was specifically designed
to allow those missions to be
conducted in the public eye.
while at the same time
actively concealing the fact
that evidence of intelligent
extraterrestrial life
might have been discovered
in space and on the Moon.
The scripting protocols followed
during the Apollo program
were for the most part
highly effective
at ensuring the astronauts
did not divulge
any sensitive information
while they communicated
over the public radio
channel with Houston.
However. when the astronauts
were not
in radio contact with
Mission Control.
they did on occasion make
some unscripted
and rather candid comments
to each other
about what they were observing
outside their spacecraft.
These comments were
captured by a device
mounted inside the Apollo
command and service module
that was known as the
data storage
equipment recorder or DSE.
The Apollo DSE was essentially
a black box cockpit
voice and telemetry
recording system.
In addition to recording a
variety of spacecraft parameters
the DSE's 14 track tape
also recorded
many internal crew
conversations that took place
when the astronauts were not
communicating with
Mission Control.
Although it is presumed
that the recordings
were destroyed or lost.
the transcriptions were
made at NASA
by the woman shown in
this image and others.
And although they were
originally classified.
those transcripts can be found
today in the NASA archives.
Many of the comments captured
by the DSE
were made when the spacecraft
was behind
the far side of the Moon
with the astronauts
describing various sites
not visible from Earth.
[eerie music]
[eerie music continues]
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]
[ominous music]
[ominous music continues]
- What's very interesting about
the Apollo 8 manned
mission to the Moon is that
we would hear about all
of these things
that astronauts and UFO
researchers would repeat
being demonstrated in the
communications.
photos and footage
throughout many other
Apollo manned missions.
That is structures on
the far side of the Moon.
UFOs. an anomalous activity
in space.
as well as this eerie
music or strange sounds
that the astronauts only heard
when they were on the
far side of the Moon.
And what's interesting is that
we will hear a more
detailed account
and more evidence of this
strange music or sounds
on the far side of the Moon
in the later Apollo 10
manned mission.
And one has to wonder.
is this sound
emanating from a base or
maybe these structures
that were observed on the
far side of the lunar surface
or was the sound actually
coming from space?
And does the Moon operate
as some kind of insulator
to feedback coming from space?
- [Narrator] March 3rd. 1969.
Apollo 9
was the third man's space
mission in the Apollo program
and the first flight with
the Apollo lunar module.
The crew spent 10 days in
low Earth orbit
testing several critical
aspects of landing on the Moon.
including lunar module engines.
spacesuit life support
systems. navigation systems.
and docking maneuvers.
- We were that first crew
that was gonna get a chance
to fly this vehicle and
test this vehicle
that was going to take
human beings to the Moon.
We were very. very aware
of the time pressure
and everything has to go right
if we're for sure gonna
meet Kennedy's goal
of getting to the Moon
in that decade and back.
We tested every possible
thing that could be tested.
The mission was completely
dedicated to testing the systems
the engines and the
guidance and navigation.
all kinds of things that
we could do in Earth orbit.
- Really very difficult to get
the coordinate system
in your head.
Normally. we docked looking
out this way
and for the dock we went
to Lunar module
we had to look out this way.
So. the control system
didn't operate
the way it normally would.
- [Astronaut] How does that
support car handle. Jim?
- [Jim Lovell] Pretty nice.
- [Narrator] This was
the first manned flight
of a lunar module.
the first docking and extraction
with the lunar module.
the first completion
of a two-man spacewalk
and the second docking
of a two-man spacecraft.
- [Commander McDivitt]
We depressurized
both the lunar module
and the command module
and Rusty was going to get out
and transfer over to the
command module.
And we were doing that to
see that it could be done.
[ominous music]
[ominous music continues]
- [Narrator] Two telecasts were
made to Earth from Apollo 9.
The first. on March 5th. lasted
for almost seven minutes.
The second telecast on the
following day
lasted for about 13 minutes
and only showed interior
views of the lunar module.
Photographs taken as part of
the multi-spectral terrain
photographic experiment
were successful.
- [Commander McDivitt]
Now. Dave wanted to get it.
get out of the spacecraft too.
So we. part of the mission was
for him to open up the hatch.
So. we were all out there
in the vacuum.
- [Narrator] Here we are
at this historic moment
that we are all part of.
not just the astronauts.
but everybody who's alive today
and we're all on this
small planet
as representative of life.
we're beginning to move
out from this planet.
which as far as we know.
contains all of the life
in our little corner
of the universe.
- [Astronaut] Annual
attitude control is good.
- [Controller] Roger. copy.
- [Astronaut] I'm gonna
pull your flag.
oops. I bent that one.
- [Astronaut] BTU
expenditure for each crew
and averaging 1.300
surgeon reports.
- [Controller] Jack.
this is Houston.
- [indistinct]
Looks like your water
temperature
is getting pretty high.
You might wanna go to
intermediate cooling
or slow down or something.
Looks like your getting
a little warm.
[dramatic music]
- [Narrator] May 18th. 1969.
the Apollo 10 mission was
the fourth manned mission
of the Apollo program.
- [Astronaut] Roger. Houston.
Apollo 10.
You can tell the world
that we have arrived.
- [Narrator] This mission
was a successful synthesis
of the previous two
completed missions.
It resulted in the lunar module
being placed for the
first time in lunar orbit.
- And they give us a silver
Snoopy for excellence warriors.
I wanted to honor the people
that had worked so hard.
So we called it Snoopy.
but you needed two names
so naturally
the other one was Charlie Brown.
- [Narrator] Stafford
and Cernan were placed
in the lunar module. Snoopy.
after leaving the command
service module.
They managed to place themselves
in an elliptical lunar orbit
about 14 kilometers
above the lunar surface.
- You're amazed at what you see.
The one thing that always
amazed me
were the size of the boulders.
There were these gigantic
craters down on the bottom
would be boulder and up on
the rim would be boulders.
- [Narrator] During the second
and final return to the Moon.
the lunar module lost control.
which was regained shortly
thereafter
by its pilot. Thomas Stafford.
- [Thomas Stafford] Yeah. okay.
Something went wild
there and we're all set.
We didn't lock it.
We're going ahead to
the audible.
- [Controller] Charlie Brown
not Houston a guy saving it.
They had a wild gyration though.
but they got it under control.
- One thing people always ask.
were you frightened.
were you scared?
The answer is no.
We were fighter pilots.
test pilots.
So we knew what risk were.
You did everything you
could to mitigate the risk.
but there was a risk.
So. we understood that.
- [Narrator] After
completing this maneuver.
the lunar module was
abandoned and launched
into orbit around the Sun.
As a final result. the
mission was a success.
Separation and docking
tests in the lunar orbit
between the command module
and the lunar module
were all successful.
The lunar module descended
to an altitude
of approximately 15 kilometers
above the lunar surface.
- Well. we had a series of
debriefings to them about.
because we had all the
procedures worked out.
Actually. I went to Neil
says. buddy. here you are.
Here's all the techniques.
all the procedures down
to the last 50.000 feet.
And you take it there hard
decent on the surface.
50.000 feet up. it's all done.
So they just followed all
the procedures we had.
[ominous music]
We were using has some
live cameras
to get the highest resolution.
Well. then and radar was going.
So radar map. photo
maps and visually maps.
- But I'll tell you one
thing. when we went over.
we made two passes over
the landing site
and I tell you what.
I think I said things that
boy we are down among.
I felt like I had to pick
up my feet
to keep from dragging
on top of the mountains.
I mean we were close and
we're going over those hills
at 3.000 miles an hour.
So. you can just imagine
what that was like.
And it was one of those
quick touch and goes.
We didn't have a chance to put
our tail hook down to stay.
And that would've been the
big part of the challenge.
Nonetheless. we were
only the second flight
to go to the Moon.
the first to take the
lunar module.
And it was the right decision
to be made
to get everything done.
And we found some problems
that had we attempted to land
might have kept us from landing
and then paved a way for Apollo
to go hand and successfully land
So. it was the right
decision at the right time.
- I have. I've looked
at a lot of transcripts.
The Apollo lunar surface
journal was great for that.
On Apollo 10. which is
where we have
the images of Sinus Medii.
it's really fascinating.
because Gene Cernan
was on that mission
as well as Apollo 17.
And they're at 50.000 feet
and he says. wow. we are
really down among them now.
I'm like there's nothing
at 50.000 feet.
If the Moon is what
they tell us is.
unless it's this
artificial glass structure.
at 50.000 feet.
- [Interviewer] If they're
scared of hitting it.
- Yeah. meaning he's in
amongst towering stuff.
Well. it isn't the mountains.
'cause the mountains
aren't that high for sure.
- [Narrator] In addition to
recording telemetry related
to the performance of the
lunar module spacecraft itself
the DSEA also made
audio recordings
of any crew conversation
throughout the mission.
- [Astronaut] Apollo can
Houston. two minutes.
the LOS. everybody here
says God speed.
- [Controller] Okay.
and we'll see you right
on the other side in orbit.
- [Astronaut] Okay. this
has got be
the greatest site ever here.
- [Astronaut] Try to
stand up here.
[ominous music]
[ominous music continues]
- [Reporter] Noises reportedly
were heard in May. 1969
by the Apollo 10 astronauts
as they circled the Moon.
The sounds which lasted
about an hour
were recorded and transmitted
to Mission Control in Houston.
- The music even sounds
outer space doesn't it?
You hear that?
That whistling sound?
Whoooooooo.
- [Controller] We are
getting data.
We don't have any voice
communication yet.
- [Astronaut] Roger Houston.
Apollo 10.
You can tell the world
that we have arrived.
- [Controller] Roger 10.
it's good to hear from you.
- [Gene Cernan] You
wouldn't believe this thing.
- [Astronaut] Roger 10.
we're still
having problems popping up.
Oh. we'd like you to go to
white beam for 30 seconds
and then back to narrow over.
- [Gene Cernan] No. I can
see it with the naked eye
and I put the binocular on it
and I can it spinning around
and I wouldn't bet my
life on it being the S4B
but it's sure gotta be
something like it.
- [Reporter] That was Gene
Cernan reporting that sighting.
- [Gene Cernan] You know.
it's a beautiful sight.
We're sitting here. it's
almost like science fiction.
Looking back at it. Bruce.
This is the peacock of
Apollo 10. Roger.
And we'd like to say hello
from the five of us if we may.
Roger.
[ominous music]
Charlie this is it.
It's so hard to describe.
You can go right up.
Uh.
It is incredible.
- [Controller] Okay. this has
got to be
the greatest sight ever.
- [Astronaut] You gotta see
it up here.
The land masses don't seem
to stand out quite as clearly
today as they did yesterday.
[ominous music]
- [Controller]
How's the view 10?
- [Astronaut] We have our
student geologist here
overlook at the surface
that they reported admitted.
- [Controller] Roger.
standing by over.
- [Astronaut] Okay. we're just
passing from the highlands
over into the Mari area and
you can pass on to Jack.
We caught a couple of real
pretty little volcanoes.
there's no doubt about 'em.
And we got a couple of
good high resolution photos
and it still looks kind of
brownish crater to us here over.
- [Controller] Roger.
we copy. we hear that.
- [Astronaut] There was place
back there where there's that.
There was one volcano or
whatever it was
that it was all white
on the outside.
but definitely black
around the top of it.
- [Controller] Roger.
Charlie. it might sound corny.
but the view is really
out of this world.
We had a couple of comments.
The back row that
I won't repeat.
Apollo 10. Houston.
two minutes to LOS.
Everybody here says God speed.
- [Astronaut] Okay.
And we'll see you
on the other side in orbit.
- [Controller] Oh Roger.
76 22 55.
- Many skeptics and debunkers
will remark on the fact that
mainstream media was not
reporting on UFOs. anomalies
and structures being
witnessed by astronauts
during the Apollo
manned missions.
And the simple reason why
mainstream media
wasn't exposed to this back
in the 1960s and seventies
during the Apollo missions
is because
that information was
deeply classified.
In fact. the DSEA tapes
weren't actually declassified
till 12 years after these
Apollo manned missions.
And additionally. we didn't
have photography and film
fully examined by many
of the UFO researchers
and independent researchers
like Luna Cognita
until many years after.
- How can they keep the secret?
Some of these SETI people like
really just make me laugh.
I've heard some pretty
stupid comments
coming out of these mouths.
Like this assumption
that. oh yeah. the press.
the media wants this scoop.
Well. the media doesn't
want that scoop.
because they're not
authorized to give it
and they won't give it.
'cause the intelligence
community will tell them
what they can give.
And NASA doesn't
want this scoop.
And I don't care what
these SETI people
like to tell the public
they don't want that scoop.
- So another case like this.
which is really interesting.
is the case of NASA frame
AS10-32-4822.
This is a photograph or
a series of photographs
that was taken over the
lunar surface
right in the middle Sinus
Medii the sea in the middle.
The sea in the middle where
the Apollo 10 spacecraft
was flying by and took
photographs of this area.
This is dead center on
the lunar disk.
If you were to look at
you'd see a triangular shaped
crater called you Kurt.
And then right next to it
is the Sinus Medii area.
It's also an area where surveyor
four disappeared in mid-air
while descending to
a landing there
just like a bug went
splat on a windshield.
So this is the photograph.
This is an original analog
image that's been scanned in
by researchers back
in the 1990s.
And it looks pretty
straightforward.
This is actually AS10-32-4810.
So it's a couple images earlier.
It's 12 images earlier than that
over the Sinus Medii region.
And you notice in the
background that
there's all this weird
sort of stuff.
You see all this light sources.
now that can't be stars.
because the frame exposure
is one 250th of a second.
If you go much longer than that.
the whole foreground is gonna
be washed out with light.
So it has to be really.
really rapid.
So it can't possibly be far
distance stars
and galaxies and planets.
But if you enhance this image.
if you brighten up the
background. it gets even weirder
because this is what the
background is.
So what you see is that
these light points
are actually just points
of... structure
that is in this massive
miles high...
geometric structure above the
lunar surface over the sea
in the middle of Sinus Medii.
Now. if you notice. there
are these crisscrossing lines
and people are like. oh.
those are just scratches
on the negative.
Well. but that doesn't
make any sense.
because when do scratches
on the negative
follow the curvature of
the lunar surface?
And when do they intersect
at 90 degree angles.
like these do.
And again. as an engineer.
I look at this.
I look at the spacing.
I say this is exactly
how I would construct
a grid-like structure over
the surface of the Moon.
If you zoom in on it. there's
this sort of box-like shape.
And here's spars coming this
way and spars coming that way.
And here's one crossing.
And these are all not scratches.
These all have structure
to them.
They all have. if you look at
them really. really closely.
they all have segments. they
all have aspects to them
that make them appear
to be engineering.
And when you enhance
it. put a color into it.
it looks even weirder.
Here's another version with
a slightly darker background.
So then you get a couple
of pictures later
and you go to AS10-32-4816.
So four photographs later. over
the surface of Sinus Medii.
Here you have the same
phenomenon.
You have these little
points of light.
which should not be there
at all.
And then when you enhance
that background. you see this.
This looks like. I don't
know. skyscrapers on the Moon.
The Twin Towers.
I mean when you look
and zoom up on this
and also notice this isn't
some sort of like
digital artifact.
because if it was. it would
be over the whole thing.
Yet. there's this big hole
through which you can see
stuff in the background.
more big towering stuff.
And when you zoom up
on the edges of that.
you can see just how
weird they are.
They look like big glass
skyscrapers.
So having found this stuff.
Hoagland was really
interested in finding more.
So he went and he got himself
an old North American
photographic catalog
from the time period.
And as he looked at these
images. he went and he said.
oh. well. look at some
of these other ones.
These other catalog images
don't look like much at all.
They look really over
underexposed. including this one
which is completely blacked out.
It's like they left the lens
cap on the camera or something.
So what did he do?
He ordered the blacked out
photograph.
And when he got AS10-32-4822.
again. taken just what.
six frames later.
he got this area of Sinus Medii.
which is about the size
of the Los Angeles Basin.
and has been analyzed
by geologists who said.
this is a completely
non-natural pattern.
Again. 90 degrees.
crisscrossing streets.
that kind of thing. as if you
were looking at Los Angeles.
And as you zoom up on
it. it gets even weirder.
And then there are objects
that appeared
that then seemed to disappear.
What they did is they
ordered 4822
once they thought they
had something.
They ordered 4822 from nine
different NASA archives
that existed at the time where
you could get photographic
prints.
Hawaii. Maryland. Washington DC.
And what they found is that
all nine of the versions
of AS10-32-4822 were different.
So what they realized was
that what they were looking at
was probably a power
winder sequence.
The spacecraft is moving
left to right.
the astronauts looking
out the window.
he's got a power winder
on his Hasselblad.
He pushes down his
finger and takes
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
And so. objects would appear
in some versions of 4822
and disappear in others.
Here's an example of
one of those.
It looks like a giant paper
clip near Los Angeles.
If you go back to Los
Angeles. if you go back.
That object should be
right here. it's not there.
But then the next frame.
it is there.
because the light changes.
So this is a huge antenna.
This tower is a couple
hundred feet tall
and whatever this thing is.
it's an antenna or something.
It does not belong on the Moon.
If the Moon is what NASA
tells us it is.
And there are other frames
through the area of 4822
that show weird light reflection
like there's lights on
down there.
And then there's this object.
which is my favorite one on
the various versions of 4822.
It's pretty famous.
It's called The Castle.
And it appears to be hanging
amidst all this stuff.
Just hanging there in space
miles above the lunar surface.
It has segments that clearly
look to me to be structural.
There's even a indication of a.
like a sagging line.
- [Interviewer] Scaffolding?
- Yeah. scaffolding or
a sagging like line
that it's hanging from.
You can see that this.
the weight of this thing
is pulling on this wire
that it's hanging from.
And it does appear in a couple
different versions of the frame.
Here's the one with the
wire and then this one
is obviously the next one
over and another step over
where the thing has not
reflected the light.
because now the spacecraft
has moved.
So. it's changed direction
just a little bit.
The wire disappears that
it's hanging from
and it's narrower.
See how it's narrower
than it is here.
- [Interviewer] It's under
exposed.
- Right. and basically.
because the light geometry
is fading.
the light is not now bouncing
directly into the camera
like it was a split second
before that.
because the spacecraft is moving
at thousands of miles an hour.
And again. you go up to
the edge of it
and you can see that
there's sort of
an internal geometry to it.
There's a lot of cells
and structures.
It is absolutely fascinating.
And they hid. they knew
what was on these.
because they hid all
nine of these photographs
under one frame number.
It should be 4822. 4823. 4824.
all the way up to 4832.
But it's not. it's all buried
under one frame number.
which they. I will remind you.
blacked out in the catalog.
'cause they didn't want
anybody to look at it.
But because of the
religious aspects of this.
the weird. strange symbolism
and stuff.
they couldn't just completely
erase them from history.
They had to give you some
access to the originals.
If it wasn't for Hoagland
being super clever.
we would never have
found this stuff.
[dramatic music]
[high pace music]
- For the first time.
man is about
to set foot on the Moon surface.
This is the television
camera that
will record that historic event.
You'll see it live on
your home television set.
I'm Stan Lebar Westinghouse
program manager
for Apollo television cameras.
The public is probably
most familiar
with this color television
camera
that was used by astronaut
Tom Stafford on Apollo 10.
And this is a camera that
took those
extraordinary color pictures
of both the Earth and the Moon.
Incidentally. this color
camera will be used
in the command module
on Apollo 11.
But the world attention
will be focused
on this small black and
white camera
that will be located in the lens
and it will record the astronaut
as he descends to the
lunar surface
and takes those first
monumental steps.
- [Controller] This is
Apollo Saturn launch control.
We passed the six minute mark
in our countdown for Apollo 11.
The flight to land the
first men on the Moon.
The vehicle's starting to pressu
as far as the propellant
tanks are concerned
and all is still go as we
monitor our status for it.
Firing command coming in now.
They're on an automatic sequence
as the master computer
supervises hundreds of events
occurring over these last
few minutes.
Neil Armstrong reported back
when he received the good wishes
Thank you very much.
We know it will be
a good flight.
Good luck and God speed.
40 seconds away from
the Apollo 11 lift off.
All the second stage
tanks now pressurized.
35 seconds and counting.
We are still go with Apollo
11. T minus 15 seconds.
Guidance is internal.
12. 11. 10. 9.
ignition sequence start. 6.
[rockets blasting]
- [Narrator] July 16th. 1969.
Apollo 11 was the fifth
manned mission
of the US Apollo program
and the first in history to
land a human being on the Moon.
[suspenseful music]
[rockets blasting]
- [Gary Martynuik] Today. I
wanted to give you a closer look
at a very brief segment of
16 mm "DAC" Motion Picture
footage from the NASA archives
that was originally shot
back in July in 1969
during the flight of Apollo 11.
And the footage was taken throug
one of the windows of the
command service module
during what was called
the Trans-Lunar Coast
or TLC phase of the mission.
And this was the three-day
period when the astronauts
were crossing the almost
400.000 kilometer
cislunar void that separates
our Earth from the Moon.
And at some point during
this outbound journey
through cislunar space.
one of the Apollo 11 astronauts
did some unscheduled shooting
with the 16 mm "DAC"
Motion Picture Camera.
And in the process
managed to film
several unidentified objects
outside their spacecraft.
And to show you what I mean.
While this particular clip
has been
digitally archived by NASA.
so that when played back.
it appears to be about
one second in duration.
it is not actually showing us
a one second period of
time caught on film.
This clip we're examining
here is actually
time compressed stop
motion footage.
And in this case. the
sequence is comprised
of 11 individual distinct
frames of 16 millimeter film
that were originally exposed
at one frame per second
intervals over a period of 11 seconds.
And this type of stop
motion filming was possible.
because the Mauer 16 mm DAC
that was used
throughout the Apollo program
was in fact
a variable frame rate
motion picture camera
that was capable of shooting
at four different preset
exposure speeds
either 1. 6. 12. or 24 frames
per second.
And in the case of this footage.
rather than archiving it
at the correct one frame
per second playback speed.
they instead incorrectly
archived the sequence
as if it had been shot at 12
frames per second instead.
So this means that NASA actually
present this stop motion
sequence in such a way
that it is being shown
at a playback rate
that's 12 times faster than
what the frames were
actually exposed at.
Whatever these objects are.
they are clearly flying
free in space.
And we can say with certainty
that they are definitely
not any declared
satellites or known debris.
We don't know what they
are. where they came from.
how they got there.
where they're going.
or what they're doing there.
And that by definition puts them
into the category of being
unidentified.
- So if somebody's gonna
say UFOs are just our craft
from a very top secret
aerospace project.
and for example. some people
will say the Phoenix Lights.
that might have been what's
called a TR3B.
It's supposed to be this
massive black budget craft
that was a crew and
heavy equipment carrier
that would take stuff to
space in sort of
what people label a
secret space program.
What do you think about that?
- I don't believe it.
- You don't believe it?
- Nope. don't believe it.
- Would you say that
the Phoenix-
- I think that the
Phoenix Lights.
I mean that was like
two miles across
from the eyewitness testimony.
including the Governor
of Arizona.
And it could hover very.
very slowly.
And when it took off.
it took off
like at the speed of light.
I mean. it would change
its shape
a little bit and just gone.
And then you have the
telepathic aspect of it too.
from the witnesses that
I spoke to.
So. I'm not gonna sit there
and say that
I definitively can make
a statement
that there's no such thing
as a secret space program.
I just haven't seen the
evidence for it
and I haven't heard the
test testimony for it.
And I'm highly dubious.
even though here I am
putting out a film on a
UFO crash
with live aliens in the town.
but I haven't seen the evidence.
I mean. it makes sense
that there would be.
there are sightings here.
Why wouldn't there be
sightings out there?
It's not my area of expertise.
I don't dig into. I
look into the phenomenon
and if it leads me to
an astronaut. great.
And if not. you know.
so I just know
that what Fay Ann Potter told me
about her brother Buzz Aldrin.
that they saw something
on the way to the Moon.
[rhythmic suspenseful music]
[rhythmic suspenseful
music continues]
[dramatic music]
- [Narrator] The lunar
landing was on July 20th
of that same year.
And the following day.
two astronauts became
the first to walk on the
lunar surface.
[dramatic music continues]
- [Astronaut] Okay. engine
stop APA at a defense
or control both auto-dependent
command override off.
Engine arm off.
For 13 is in.
- [Astronaut] We copy it down.
Eagle.
Houston. uh...
- [Controller] Roger tranquility
we copy you on the ground.
You got a bunch of guys
about to turn blue.
we're breathing again.
thanks a lot.
- When we did get close
and we rolled out
and saw it for the first
time. it was a revelation.
It was gigantic. it
filled our entire window.
- Flying through the Moon shadow
and seeing the Sun eclipsed by
the Moon as we approached it.
that was a very
spectacular sight.
- [Narrator] Commander
Armstrong was the first human
to set foot on the surface
of the Earth's satellite
on July 21st. 1969 at 02:56
UTC. international time
south of the Sea of Tranquility.
six and a half hours
after landing on the Moon.
This historic milestone was
broadcast to the entire planet
from the Parks Observatory
in Australia.
- [Neil Armstrong] Here.
men from the planet Earth.
first step foot upon the moon.
July 1969.
We came in peace
for all mankind.
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]
- [Astronaut] It's beautiful.
- [Astronaut] Isn't that
something?
Say here are you talking about
a mysterious looking place.
They can cut some fresh some
parts of those pictures up.
Make a nice photograph.
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]
They can cut some fresh some
parts of those pictures up.
Make a nice photograph.
[dramatic music continues]
- There's this thing
that came out about 2014.
and it's an image that
was found on the internet
that had actually been posted
back in the early days
like 2002.
And it had a number
as1120pyramid20small2.jpg.
that was the name of the image.
And it showed what
clearly appears to be
an artificial structure on
the surface of the Moon.
but nobody really knew
where it came from.
The AS11 indicated that
it was an Apollo 11 shot.
and it took researchers
quite a while
to actually find the image.
And it turned out the
image was AS11-38-5564.
Now this is interesting.
because it was an image
that was taken.
it was a photograph that
was taken
by one of the Apollo 11
astronauts.
either Neil Armstrong. Buzz
Aldrin or Michael Collins
shooting out the window
of the command module
as they were flying over
the lunar surface
on trans Earth injection.
They had already fired
the engine.
they were heading towards Earth
and they were just
shooting the hell
out of the backside of the Moon.
Now. the interesting
thing about this is that
they took these pictures just.
again.
probably with a power winder.
one after the other.
after the other.
But the film was so good
that they could take
just lots and lots of
photographs.
This is the image as it
appeared in an a NASA archive.
And it's an image of a
crater called Daedalus.
Now. this thing is very. very
near the crater Daedalus.
it's actually Daedalus R.
I believe.
And Daedalus is dead center
on the back disc of the Moon.
In other words. it's the
exact antipode.
the other side of Sinus Medii
where we just saw The Castle.
So you might expect to
find something there.
I have a feeling this is why
they were photographing this.
So in that area. and again.
this is Sinus Medii with
the triangular crater.
pretty interesting stuff.
And then on the back
you have this Ziggurat.
So. as we looked at this thing.
it began to look more
and more like something
that was completely artificial
and did not belong there.
And again. I went through
it. did some enhancement.
tried to get more detail out.
And what you see.
or at least what I saw
is these four walls.
this wall structure.
sort of a weird angled
front end to it.
Kind of there's a triangle
shape there.
and then there's like a
central box with maybe windows.
There's a passageway to
actually enter it
and like a little dome on top.
Pretty bizarre stuff.
Well. somebody pointed
out this looks a lot like
the Ziggurat at Ur in
Mesopotamia or modern day Iraq.
And yeah. here's this
basic structure.
Here's these entrances.
these walkways.
this is what it looked like
when they first found it
in the 1930s and it's
now been re-excavated.
And this is what the original
structure looked like.
You have exterior walls.
you have an interior
square structure.
you have a single
entranceway.
which is how they were
set up for defense.
And then you have these
ramps leading up to it.
Now. if you were to take
these ramps
and like fill them in.
again. here's a little dome.
So. a little dome right here
on top of the structure.
So. it looks basically like this
Like there's an
exterior structure
and an interior structure
like a Ziggurat.
And again. I'm gonna remind you.
okay.
here's a dome. here's a
little dome.
here's an interior
square structure.
here's the interior square
structure.
here's the exterior walls.
there they are.
And then here's. if you
took this area
and filled it in.
it would look with dirt.
it would look probably
just like this thing does.
The problem is when
you go to AS11-38-5564.
it doesn't really look
quite the same.
So we finally found the object
near the crater Daedalus R.
This is the area involved.
This is the original image
that was found
by a guy named KK Samurai.
by the way.
That was what he called himself.
He's the one who found that
he was given this image
by a very interesting character.
So here is the Daedalus
Ziggurat. on today's image.
It's gone. right? Where is it?
Well. it's actually
supposed to be right here.
right here in the middle.
But there's the front ramps.
there's the.
but it's all gone.
It's just blank. it's
nothing but a crater.
And again. I did the best
I could with it.
with what they have on
NASA's surface now.
It doesn't look like
really anything.
They've blurred it out.
They've... [inaudible]
They've added shadows.
And again. I'm gonna
tell you again.
I went and analyzed the
interior of this crater
and this area here.
And again. it's one color.
pitch black.
over the entire thing.
That means they drew on
this. they drew on this.
If they drew on this. they
drew on other parts of it too.
So. again. from a
distance. as you step back.
it kind of looks like the
same thing.
but it actually really doesn't.
They're trying to convince
you this is nothing.
but an optical illusion.
Now. I got into very
strong conflict
with a couple of NASA guys
over there.
They're like. oh. it's
obviously nothing.
You know. you can't.
yeah. you're crazy.
You don't know what
you're looking at.
But clearly what's happened
here is that
the original image from
which KK Samurai
drew his conclusions
and his version
is completely different
than 5564.
The problem is. is we didn't
know at the time originally
where he got this
interesting version.
Where did he get it
from. and what was on it?
But here's the thing.
this is supposed to be
the Ziggurat right here.
But as I looked at this
image. I found that there was.
even though they had
erased the Ziggurat.
there was a lot of other
interesting stuff
on here they didn't erase.
A lot of interesting stuff.
These are some of the
areas that are marked
as we go through them
real quickly.
There's this particular.
um. guy.
which is just a sort of
a normal crater.
But then what is this
thing up above here?
What is this one up here?
Number five. up in the
corner of the image.
And as we zoom up on that.
I see stuff that with my
trained eye
looks really. really weird.
This is the area where they have
blacked out the sky behind this.
Well. what is this thing?
Well. if you look at
it. it's pretty bizarre.
because what you've got
here is this is a hangar
cut into the side of
this mountain.
It's filled in with debris
in the front.
And that would be the
other side.
You're looking at it at an angle
and then this is some sort
of disc shape
with something else going on.
Like what the hell are
these things?
See. stone. spire. stone.
spire. stone. what are they?
But it's right there and
they're all in the same area.
Because if you have one anomaly.
no matter how clear it is.
if there's nothing else
around it.
you can't really say
it's something.
It could just be. again. a
really bizarre looking artifact.
So let's go back and
look. this is another.
there's like a tube that
you can follow
that runs for miles and
miles along the surface
and then seems to attach
itself like a drill
underneath this overhanging
ridge.
This thing is hanging there.
There's all kinds of structure.
It's just bizarre.
- People who come here
to this museum
and look at our spacecraft.
Columbia.
are most often struck by
its small size.
which from their perspective
is understandable.
From our point of view.
the command module
was a wonderful improvement
over our previous spacecraft.
which were really cramped.
And so. we enjoyed the luxury
of a big volume machine.
- Yeah. I thought we had
amazingly good accommodations.
We had hot and cold water.
The food was even edible.
All in all. it was a nicely
packaged. small enclosure.
and we could comfortably
have stayed there
far in excessive eight days.
- [Narrator] On July
24th. the three astronauts
achieved a perfect
splash down in the waters
of the Pacific Ocean
ending the mission.
[inspirational music]
- Well. it proved that
the United States
could accomplish
tremendous goals
if they worked together
as a team.
- After the flight of Apollo 11.
Neil Armstrong. Buzz Alder and I
had an around the world tour.
And every place we went.
I thought they'd
in some places have the
attitude of.
oh. well you Americans
finally did this.
Not at all. the attitude.
every country.
regardless of their
internal politics.
they all said. we did it.
we humans.
[audience applauding]
[audience applauding continues]
- It was our pleasure to have
participated in one
great adventure.
It's an adventure
that took place
not just in the month of July.
but rather one that took
place in the last decade.
We all here and the
people listening in today
had the opportunity to
share that adventure
over its developing
and unfolding
in the past months and years.
It's our privilege today
to share with you
some of the details of
that final month of July.
That was certainly the highlight
for the three of us of
that decade.
We're going to divert
a little bit
from the format of past
press conferences
and talk about the things
that interested us most.
In particular. the things
that occurred
on and about the Moon.
- [Reporter] Apollo 11
astronaut. Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin.
the second man to walk
on the Moon.
has actually given an
interview where he confirmed
that certain segments
of his Apollo mission
were indeed carefully scripted
to control exactly what
the public saw and heard.
Back in 2003. Aldrin was
interviewed
for Neil Armstrong's only
authorized biography.
And during that interview.
he was asked about
whether some of the live
television transmissions
that were made from the
CSM during the flight
really were improvised
and unscripted.
And in response. Aldrin
first admits that NASA
quote went to great lengths
unquote
to make sure that they
appeared unscripted.
And he then goes on to
say the following.
and I'll quote Aldrin
directly here.
- We will use a number
of films and slides.
which most of you have
already seen.
and with the intent of
pointing out
some of the things that
we observed on the spot.
which may not be
obvious to those of you
who are looking at them here
from the surface of Earth.
- [Narrator] This motion
picture DAC footage
was recorded during the Apollo
11 ascent back into orbit
and famously presents an orb-lik
flying along the lunar horizon.
[ominous music]
- What's very interesting about
the Apollo 11 manned mission
is that this mission also would
be very rife with rumors of
anomalous or UFO activity
out there on the Moon.
In fact. one of the rumors
that's quite prevalent
is that a craft was waiting.
A non-terrestrial craft was
waiting on the lunar surface
for the Apollo 11 astronauts
when they did their first
Moon walks.
Another rumor that actually
came from Buzz Aldrin.
the Apollo 11 astronaut himself.
was that a UFO was following
the Apollo spacecraft
on the way to the Moon in
the middle of cislunar space.
And the astronauts had
tracked it
while they were floating
through space.
[ominous music]
[ominous music continues]
- Buzz Aldrin could have been
one of these important figures
that actually proved there
is UFO activity
happening in outer space.
But unfortunately. he
became very contradictory
on his initial story in
mainstream media.
- There was something out
there that was close enough
to be observed and. uh.
what could it be?
Mike decided he thought he
could see it in the telescope
and he was able to do that.
And when it was in one position
that had a series of ellipses.
but when you made it real sharp.
it was sort of L-shaped that
didn't tell us very much.
Now obviously. the three of
us were not gonna blurt out.
Hey Houston. we got something
moving alongside of us
and we don't know what it is.
Can you tell us what it is?
We weren't about to do that.
'cause we know that
those transmissions
would be heard by all
sorts of people
and who knows what
somebody would've demanded
that we turned back
because of aliens
or whatever the reason is.
So. we didn't do that.
but we did decide.
we just cautiously ask
Houston where.
how far away was the S4B.
And a few moments later
why they came back
and said something like.
it was 6.000 miles away.
because of the maneuver.
So. we really didn't think
we were
looking at something
that far away.
So. we decided that after
a while of watching it.
it was time to go to sleep and
not to talk about it anymore
until we came back
in debriefing.
I saw this illumination that
was moving
with respect to the stars.
We were smart enough to not say.
Houston. there's a light out
there that's following us.
So. technically becomes an
unidentified flying object.
[Echo] Flying object.
[indistinct]
- All I can think about.
But in any case. I was on
set and I was just a gopher
and I turned out I got
a little role.
but Mickey Rooney was like.
"Oh. what are you doing
when you're not here
helping us out?"
And I said. "I'm making a
UFO film."
He goes. "Oh. I'm friends
with Buzz Aldrin
and you should talk
to him sometime.
He's got some pretty
interesting stories."
And so. that was my initial
in with Buzz Aldrin.
Um.
And then I would say
probably three years later
I met Fay Ann Potter.
Buzz Aldrin's sister.
So I'm talking to Fay
Ann Potter and I said.
I found out it was her
brother was Buzz Aldrin.
And I'm like. I worked
on this movie set
and I found out through
Mickey Rooney
that your brother had
a sighting. some...
but I didn't get any specifics.
She said. oh yeah. he had
two encounters with UFOs
and one was when
he was piloting.
this is what she told me.
this is what Buzz Aldrin's
sister told me. okay?
She said that he had. and I
don't know what year it was.
but I think it was before
he went to the Moon.
He was flying a fighter
jet and he chased a disc.
And she said that he was
so moved by the experience
that he called her and he
was still shaking from it.
He said he chased it till
he couldn't go any higher.
didn't catch it.
That's what she told me.
Then she said he also told her
that they...
saw something.
or something followed
them to the Moon.
But it was like not just
a quick sighting.
I think it went on for
like a day or two.
That's what she told me.
So. between Fay Ann
Potter and Mickey Rooney
and his wife. Jan Rooney.
they said.
we think we can get you an
interview with Buzz Aldrin.
So. they got my foot in the
door. they contacted him.
Good kid. he's doing
this documentary
and Buzz Aldrin agrees
to meet with me.
- He's in Europe.
- That's the problem.
He was in France on tour for
some book that he was doing.
Yes. I'll meet with James.
but I'm on this book tour
and I'm gonna be in Monte
Carlo on these dates.
If he wants to meet me
in Monte Carlo
I'll meet with him and
do an interview.
So of course. I'm gonna do that.
And I've got Buzz Aldrin.
I think I've borrowed money
from somebody.
I can't remember who.
And we get to his hotel and
the concierge comes and says.
Mr. Fox? say. Yes?
You have a telephone call.
And I. okay.
And he gives me the phone
and it's Buzz Aldrin.
I can't do the interview.
I said. it's like. what do
you mean
you can't do the interview?
I traveled all this way.
He said. I can't do it.
He said. it was Paul Allen.
- [Darcy Weir] Paul Allen?
- It was Paul Allen.
He said. Paul Allen
just invested in SETI
and he was labeled a UFO
quack. something like that.
- And he didn't wanna
be labeled.
- And he said. I'm trying
to get money from Congress
to develop a rocket that'll
put citizens in space
and I will not jeopardize
that initiative.
And how's my coming forward
gonna change anything anyway.
And I responded how I felt
and I said.
well. with all due respect. sir.
it takes people of your stature
to elevate this whole.
you know. phenomenon
out of the rut that it's in.
And your contribution.
your testimony.
would be of the utmost
significance.
You know?
He said. well. I'm not doing it.
And he was almost kind
of angry or something
like. well. I did
something wrong. you know?
And. um.
But he said. how's my story
gonna change anything?
He didn't deny it at all.
And he was gonna go on
camera and tell me about it.
- 12 men have ever
walked on the Moon.
And the man who
did it the second time
anyone walked on the Moon
was Buzz Aldrin.
He was part of the first
mission that got there.
The national astronaut
on Apollo 11.
He's here with a model
of Apollo 11.
He was with the first pair
with Neil Armstrong. of course.
And Buzz. the panel
remains so that
they might wanna pop
something at him.
But Buzz. what's your
connection with this program?
What did you see?
- What did I see?
Well. the first day out.
maybe six hours after launch.
we were scheduled to make
a mid-course correction.
I'd like to show you a
few things in this rocket
just to point out the
condition that we were in.
We separate the command
and service module
and it turns around like this
and it docks with the
lunar module.
Now. notice these three
and four panels.
whenever the command module
separates and turns around.
those panels go off in
four different directions.
And we can look out
these windows
and see the Earth drift by
and see the Moon drift by.
- [Larry King] And what
did you see?
- And I saw a light out there.
Okay. this is after we
had witnessed
the upper stage rocket
next to us
make an evasive maneuver
to miss the Moon.
And we thought.
wonder what that is?
You know. there are a
lot of lights out there
when you're not looking in
the direction of the Sun.
There are a lot of stars
and they're all fixed
relative to each other.
Now. one of 'em starts
moving or it's moving
and we know that that's another
object. it's not a star.
We started thinking a
little bit more
about these four panels
and I'd seen a graph
where it showed the
separation distance
that was calculated
before liftoff.
before the whole mission went
of where these panels would be
in case the spacecraft
made some maneuver
and they guaranteed
there'd be no.
- Hold it right there.
you got me hooked.
- Fast forward...
- many years later.
- Oh yeah. oh yeah.
- Oh my God.
- you were on CNN.
- So I had no idea.
I get- I had broken a story
with Fife Symington
who was the former
Governor of Arizona. okay?
- And-
- The Phoenix Lights.
- The Phoenix Lights
case that he had not only
that he'd seen it. he did
actually investigate it
and that he felt
it was otherworld.
It was a big story.
And I was all over the news
and we got invited on CNN.
I think it was the 60th
anniversary of Roswell.
but I'm not positive.
- Larry King Live.
- Yeah. Larry King Live.
And I see Buzz Aldrin
in the green room.
and I walked outta
the green room
and I turned over to
Fife Symington.
the former Governor of Arizona.
And I said. man.
I can't wait to go.
This is the first time
I've seen him
since he canceled this interview
with me 10 years earlier.
or whatever it was.
And really no explanation
given I borrowed all this money
and I know he's had these.
they're gonna get him out here
just debunking everything.
And Fife says. you know. James.
that guy's an iconic figure
in the United States history.
I mean. he landed on the
Moon with Neil Armstrong.
You really can't be doing that
to him on a national
live TV show.
- He might even punch you.
- But he is a big. he is
a very famous. respected.
- He's a hero.
- And so I toned it down
and then I just watched him.
basically lie on live television
- What did I see
during the flight?
- [Larry King] Yeah. you saw-
- We saw
- one of the four panels.
the 99.999.
- Okay. I was told by a
very close source of yours
that you actually saw
something other than that.
- A lot of people have
said things that I saw.
- I don't want to reveal
the source.
- That doesn't mean that I saw.
[panelists speaking
simultaneously]
[ominous music]
- In your years of flying.
- Oh.
- As you said.
you've seen strange things.
- Well. yeah. I was flying
a T33. I guess
and I looked out and saw
a star out there.
but it wasn't a star.
it was Venus.
But it kept following me
all along.
And you would swear that
it's another object out there
and you can turn.
And I wanna congratulate
you on your magic show
last night with all
the illusions.
because now we're getting a
lot more illusions tonight.
And can you explain
everything that happened
with Chris Angel last night?
- I cannot explain anything.
- No. you can't.
- Doesn't make it.
- [Buzz Aldrin] That's right.
- Here's what I'm gonna do. folk
I'm gonna take a break. come
back and get the thought.
- One of my biggest regrets was
I didn't get Fay Ann Potter
on camera to.
I never thought she would
just die so quickly.
I didn't even know she was sick.
you know?
But Fay Ann Potter told me
that he had a very dramatic
encounter with a flying saucer
while he chased the disc.
'cause it is what she said.
While piloting in a fighter jet.
And that they were
followed by something
that they were not able
to explain to the Moon.
She did not say he had
a sighting on the Moon.
She didn't tell me that.
She said on the way to the Moon.
- Right.
- Now. what happened
on the Moon?
I have no idea. but
that's what she told me.
- Apollo 11 was purely symbolic.
It was land on the Moon
in the middle of nowhere.
avoid all this stuff that
we're concerned about.
because there's a whole theory.
That we can land on the Moon.
and it was out in the
middle of nowhere
and it was where the stars
were aligned properly in
the Sea of Tranquility
for Buzz Aldrin to perform
his ceremony.
which consecrated the Moon
itself as a Masonic temple.
and Apollo 11 tranquility
base as a Masonic temple.
That was the purpose.
All the other missions
were salvage missions.
Let's go land where we
think interesting stuff is.
ancient alien technology.
call it an anarchy
technology if you want to.
Left behind and bring it back
and do a Terminator to reverse
engineering type thing.
And I mean. it's pretty clear
as you look at the
photographic record.
Oh. did they see that?
Yeah. I'm sure they saw that.
Did they see this?
I'm sure they realized
that's not a rock.
because they were very well
trained in all this stuff.
[upbeat music]
- Welcome to Tucker Carlson.
Today. the crazy thing
about the topic of UFOs
is how when you get into
it. how really non-crazy.
a lot of the people
who know a lot
about the topic turn out to be.
They're kind of the opposite
of what you imagine.
They're not for conspiracy nuts.
A lot of them are
just scientists.
Garry Nolan is definitely
at the top of that list.
He's a Harvard. he's a
Stanford rather. professor.
Stanford PhD. an immunologist.
And he has over the
last decade or two.
spent a lot of time
studying the harmful effects
that apparent encounters with
UFOs have on the human brain.
- So my main job.
my day job at Stanford
for the last 30 years has been
the development of
technologies to look at cancer.
It was circa 2011 or so when
some people from the CIA
and an aerospace company
came to me
to ask me for their
help on the analysis
of some individuals
who had been.
had encountered some
anomalous objects they said.
And I mean they came to
my office unannounced
and then started laying
out pictures
and data on the table
in front of me.
Then that's a huge
operation in the government
to deal with those.
In fact. the Senate Intelligence
Committee
just came out with a
report this morning
that has language
specifically in it
to look at the Havana
Syndrome cases
and to understand it.
Also has interesting. I
don't know if you saw it.
it also has language about UAPs.
And basically. admonishing
the defense department saying.
you guys have been
dragging your feet.
No. no more. whistleblower
language.
They actually. there was
also a situation
where they wanna go all
the way back to 1947.
collect. they want the.
all the Defense Department
and the CIA. et cetera
to collect all the information
around events that
have occurred.
They want all of. interestingly.
the NDAs. the non-disclosure
agreements.
they want those all listed.
because the NDAs are
associated to people.
And that means they can start
to name the people who
have been involved.
They want all of the information
on the disinformation
and the obfuscation that's
been going on.
And they want information about
the medical harms
that have occurred.
- If we look at this
Tucker Carlson interview
that happened with the
Stanford University professor.
it gives one hope about the
disclosure and this movement
in which we might get
in the mainstream media.
The fact that we're not
alone sometime in the future.
These congressional hearings
in which experiencers
are going to testify
before Congress.
Experiencers being people
that were witness to UFOs
and actually were
physically affected
by their proximity to
these UFOs.
Now. these experiencers
are important.
but it pains me to think that
important whistleblowers
like Karl Wolfe
are no longer around
to also take part
in these congressional hearings.
Karl Wolfe passed away in 2018.
Just like John Mack was
hit by a car.
and this tragically
ended his life.
In 2018. Karl Wolfe was
also hit by a car
when he was on his bike.
And this is a very
unfortunate loss.
His family mourns his loss.
as does the
UFO research community.
- Well. let's say we know
all of these implications.
and let's say it's 1960
and we know some of
these things. right?
Well. you think of the
world back then.
The world of 1960.
no way would that world be ready
for some of the
intellectual realities
of what we think we know now.
Because actually our
knowledge of this subject
has gone way deeper in our era
than it ever was in the past.
In the past.
they're thinking like
the day the Earth stood still.
you know. men. maybe
some women in space suits
from another world in
their metal spaceships
have just arrived.
And you know. that whole thing.
And that's how people were
talking back in the fifties.
That's what they thought.
Or at least some of them were
thinking along these lines.
And that's clearly not
like we're well past that.
whatever the reality of this is.
this phenomenon signifies a
reality that is mind bending.
That we're gonna have to
make some adjustments.
So let's say back in 1960.
we've got some inkling of this.
And we have to ask ourselves.
what the hell do we do
with this information?
And how could we ever get the
public up to speed on this?
And if we were to really
think seriously about that.
we would realize this
will take generations.
This cannot happen right away.
There's no way.
No way.
- I don't think it's gonna
come as a surprise to folks
that have been following
us on this journey
that Apollo 12 has many of
the examples of anomalies.
structures on the Moon and UFOs
that we will also see
in later Moon missions.
[ominous music]
[dramatic music]
[dramatic music continues]